# Documentation for the `sas_faker` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *sas_faker--SAS package to create dummy data in CDISC format for clinical trials* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: sas_faker
- Version: 0.1.0
- Generated: 2025-07-03T07:39:58
- Author(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- Maintainer(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*DAF09C08CDB50A57E21DA24E2113E56F80B94B52536100F2D914DC6BE85AFBC2` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*9EFDD21F91F61DECE95447E51F5137CF887EE77120BAD391E05A49B1EC626D5D` for this version
  
---
 
# The `sas_faker` package, version: `0.1.0`;
  
---
 
A SAS package to create dummy data in CDISC format for clinical trials.
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20241207`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `sas_faker` package content
The `sas_faker` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%sas_faker()` macro ](#sasfaker-macros-1 )
  
 
2. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%sas_faker()` macro <a name="sasfaker-macros-1"></a> ######

Program Name: sas_faker.sas
Purpose: A macro to generate dummy clinical trial data. Creates datasets in SDTM (DM, AE, SV, VS) and ADaM (ADSL, ADAE) formats.
         Generates pseudo subject data, vital signs, study visits, and adverse events based on user-specified group numbers and sample sizes.
Author: [Yutaka Morioka]
Date: July 2, 2025
Version: 0.1
Input Parameters:
  - n_groups: Number of groups (default=2)
  - n_per_group: Number of subjects per group (default=50)
  - output_lib: Output library (default=WORK)
  - seed: Random seed (default=123456)
  - create_dm: Flag to generate DM dataset (Y/N, default=Y)
  - create_ae: Flag to generate AE dataset (Y/N, default=Y)
  - create_sv: Flag to generate SV dataset (Y/N, default=Y)
  - create_vs: Flag to generate VS dataset (Y/N, default=Y)
  - create_adsl: Flag to generate ADSL dataset (Y/N, default=Y)
  - create_adae: Flag to generate ADAE dataset (Y/N, default=Y)
  - create_adae: Flag to generate ADTTE dataset (Y/N, default=Y)
Output:
  - SDTM datasets: DM, AE, SV, VS (if specified)
  - ADaM datasets: ADSL, ADAE, ADVS, ADTTE (if specified)
Notes:
  - Uses a random seed for reproducible data generation.
  - Utilizes the minimize_charlen macro to optimize character variable lengths.
  - Generated data mimics the structure of clinical trial data but is not real.
  - Variable names related to MeDRA dictionary (e.g., F_AELLTCD, F_AEPTCD) are prefixed with "F_" to avoid infringement of intellectual property rights.
  - Adverse event terms and codes (AETERM, AEDECOD, AEBODSYS, etc.) are structured systematically but are fictitious dictionary coding data and unrelated to the actual MeDRA dictionary.

Example:
** Generate data with 3 treatment groups, 100 subjects per group.
%generate_clinical_dummy_data(
n_groups=3,
n_per_group=100,
seed=789012)

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
	Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka]

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy  
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal  
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights  
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell     
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is         
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                      
                                                                                
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included       
  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                        
                                                                                
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR    
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,      
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE   
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER        
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
  SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
